hey everyone welcome to python bites um hello hello and uh hey michael um should we just kick
it off let's kick it all right sorry hello and welcome to python bites where we deliver python
news and headlines directly to your earbuds this is episode 405 recorded october 14th 2024
and i am brian ackin and i'm michael kennedy and this episode is sponsored by scout apm please listen to
them the their segment later in the show and if you'd like to connect with us and ask us a question
or submit an article you can find us on mastodon um on fosteron.org we are at m kennedy at brian
ackin and at python bites and if you cc all three of us it actually gets to us really a lot better
or you can email it to us there's a um there's a contact form on our website pythonbytes.fm
if you'd like to watch live you can join us on youtube um and go to pythonbytes.fm/live
be part of the audience or watch old episodes it's a lot of fun we love getting questions in the chat
um and also finally if you'd like to um if you'd like to get all the links just listen and enjoy the
show while you're listening and then read the links later um you don't have to write anything down just
um join uh go to pythonbytes.fm and get on our mailing list go to friends of the show or just say
sign up for newsletter and we'll send you weekly a weekly email with all the links and all the topics
from the show so um to get started michael um i that was a long intro maybe you could be a little
more brief with i'm gonna try i'm gonna keep this one brief okay okay briefer let's talk about briefer
from briefer cloud so this is new to me obviously 98.4 according to the last survey of our listeners
know about jupyter and jupyter notebooks okay right for those of you who don't notebooks are a way to sort
of explore data mix in explanation graphics along with code and analysis and by far jupyter notebooks
are the most popular way to do notebook type programming but not the only way right we've
talked previously about shiny for python which is a really cool option but today i want to tell you
about briefer and my theory is the name comes from the thing that delivers a briefing because it's about
not just exploratory data notebooks but it seems to be even a little more focused on delivering a
dashboard experience that non-developers or at least not the person creating the thing
comes to look at they can just sort of explore it as an interactive web page okay okay so it is
i'll give you their little spiel it's dashboards and notebooks in a single place create powerful
and flexible dashboards using code beautiful notion like notebooks and share them with your team
and yeah that pretty much sums it up so i believe this used to be a commercial product still is a
commercial product don't get me wrong it used to be exclusively a commercial project because they
have a big banner at the top briefer is now open source ghost stars on github and let's see how many
people have 3.3 000 that's a respectable amount of traffic right that's pretty good but if you go to
their web page at briefer.cloud you can see a little bit more like what the heck is this thing about
okay so multiplayer as in multiple people can work on it and i think one of the things that's unique
about this compared to say a jupyter notebook so for example suppose i want to talk to a postgres database
or something like that as part of my data that i need to pull back well you've got to connect to
postgres in your notebook and you've got to put your password and your connection string
in your notebook that's not that's really ideal you might be able to pull in i'm sure there's a way to
pull in environment variables or something like that but it's not super easy right so one of the deals i
think here is you connect a database and then you write python and sql to query the database and transform
it into the right shape and filter it and so on and then you use this tool to create visualizations
and dashboards and reports data apps and so on out of it so it's like you configure the system to know
about your data connection and then just any notebook can talk to the database something along those lines
obviously that's not a totally universal use case but that's the idea okay
and it's also came out of y combinator like i said i think it was primarily just commercial at first
and then expanded so yeah it says connect your data source run some queries run python code using your
query results as data frames and then share your results so they've got some cool examples in here
they have ai because why combinator and it has to apparently but these are good looking things and
then you can have notebook styles and you can create a dashboard where you put
like different charts and stuff next to each other and then they're just web pages that people can
check out this is pretty cool yeah right i like yeah i mean then you publish it to the web
so the thing to know is if you look at pricing there's two options paid and hot paid right
so open source self-hosted free install it from github off to the races then there's a community which
has a free one a pro and enterprise it's not any sort of ad or anything right but i do think the fact
that it's open source and it has these cool features um sort of executable python is pretty
neat there's some more uh cool python stuff about it here i can't remember where i was reading it oh
yeah you can also put like little sliders and date pickers and stuff that will as people interact with
them right it'll update uh what happens but you can also somewhere along here instead of schedule yeah
you can schedule your python blocks to run on a recurring schedule so if it's got to go yeah it's
got to go pull i don't know daily information from some csv source or who knows right yeah so yeah
anyway that's what i got people can check it out and if you're over here of course there is a
docker compose.yam also if you're going to self-host it you can just docker compose it to life nice
um well i know that school started last month for most people it's been going on for a while but
it's still kind of near the beginning and i was i was thinking about students and thinking there's a
lot of people uh learning some new web stuff and so i picked a couple topics around learning new
learning new things and we're going to start with python so uh i i got this from uh forgot his name
all right ready um jose blanca um and i think he's the dude that wrote it um that yeah um it's
introduction to programming with python but it's all web-based i kind of and it's uh it's it's it's kind
of nice all web-based and just um it's just a free kind of a basic intro um and i think it'll be more
than enough for a lot of people to get started on there like they're taking some programming course and
or need to know a little python for a course or something or a new project so um why there's a
few things that i like about it one of them is it's not a complete overview it does not try it says it
doesn't try to cover all every detail python language just what a beginner might need to start the journey
and i know there's a lot of great training tutorials especially over maybe at talk python training
um to get started but um but if you were um uh if all you got is uh no money and a web connection um
um i think this is maybe something to check out um i want to point out a couple other features um
uh it's it's running if we scroll to the bottom it's running uh quarto which um of course i think we've
covered this quarto publishing system i believe that we have yeah that comes from the shiny folks as well
some people that make shiny for python that i mentioned before um well it's based on that with the
quarto live extension that allows uh python to run in the browser using pyodide um and uh and at the bottom
we can see a github link so this whole thing is open source that's the kind of thing that is intriguing to me
uh the whole project's open source so if you want to uh like if you wanted to have an internal training
for your company or uh for your own like uh individual teachers wanted to customize this for
your own class um you could you know fork this and do your own thing which is i kind of love that um
and uh i wanted to i i was curious about um i was curious about what it's running so i went over and
um i looked at the hello world so there's if we go to hello world there's a is the first time you get
to actually play with the code and there's these like because it's pyodide there's the you're reading
about python and then there's these little code run blocks and you can just run stuff but um and then
you can start over and do it again but you can also just blop some new stuff in there so i just uh
blopped uh import sys print sys version to see what what python version it was running um and it's
running 3.12.1 um i was i guess i would have been surprised if it was already running 3.13 um but um
but 3.12.1 is a bit kind of i kind of expected something a little newer than that anyway okay it's
still pretty it's better than 3.8 everybody but uh yeah 3.12.1 not bad so um just to be able to just
sort of pull right run a few things so what all has it got in it let's um uh if we go to the intro there's a
uh uh i forget what i was reading never mind
um it just python's used everywhere we love python and if you're if some of the courses are out of
reach for you or if you'd like to have something to on the go um this might be something to look for
or especially the real thing i was thinking is people like teachers trying to customize their own
uh introduction or different things that they're trying to teach using pyodide this is a good example
so yeah if you don't want to start with let's begin with what a virtual environment is in your path and
that kind of stuff yeah well that and also just um uh if you'd like to write your own like like online
tutorial book for a particular topic that you're covering like i was thinking uh seeing if i could
do some of this stuff for testing concepts um that'd be kind of fun yeah because i'll tell you i i um
i know some folks that do research and work with teachers like middle school teacher type folks and
they were choosing some kind of programming language to work with with their students and they decided
they're like oh we should use r because r will install on chromebooks more easily than python
by the way i said a message no no that's actually this you can install them both however
if you're using ipads for school or chromebooks your web browser works just fine
right yeah with something like this or a lot of other new platforms and these are so we'll see
we'll see more of this stuff coming along i think um so it's good we absolutely will very cool now before we
move on let's talk about scout let me tell you real quick about scout apm they're big supporters of python bytes so we appreciate that very much
so if you are tired of spending hours trying to find the root cause of issues impacting your performance
then you owe it to yourself to check out scout apm they're a leading python application performance
monitoring tool apm that helps you identify and solve performance abnormalities faster and easier scout apm
ties bottlenecks such as memory leaks slow database queries background jobs and the dreaded n plus one queries that you
can end up if you do lazy loading in your orm then you say oh no why is it so slow why are you doing
200 database queries for what should be one so you can find out things like that and it links it back
directly to source code so you can spend less time in the debugger and killing logs and just finding the
problems and moving on and you'll love it because it's built for developers by developers it makes it easy to
get set up seriously you can do it in less than four minutes so that's awesome and the best part is the
pricing is straight forward you only pay for the data that you use with no hidden overage fees or per seat
pricing and i just learned this brian they also have they provide the pro version for free to all open
source projects so if you're an open source maintainer and you want to have scout apm for that project
just shoot them a message or something on their pricing page about that so you can start your free
trial and get instant insights today visit pythonbytes.fm/scout the link is in your podcast
player show notes as well and please use that link don't just search for them because otherwise they don't
think you came from us and then they'd stop supporting the show so please use our link pythonbytes.fm/scout
check them out it really supports the show all right on to the next one huh yeah so remember i talked about
trying to be more efficient on pypi.org and not just especially under docker and containers not just
blasting it every time like hey my requirements are my pyproject.tomla or whatever results in
200 dependencies downloaded and let's start fresh every time i do a build to run a pr test or something
along those lines right and i i wrote that article on my website that talked about several different
things how do you install python using uv how do you make how can you set up caching both for pip and for
uv to make that better and we both said well github is probably the most you know the probably the worst
of all of these things like and i think you even mentioned that wouldn't it be awesome if github
would actually just realize oh you're getting something from pypi out of ci let's just give you the one we
got like the other half a million times today or whatever right yeah so uh all of those statements
remain true and valid and i definitely encourage people to check that out because
i feel like we could just do a lot better and not just destroy pipe i in terms of traffic and
financial bandwidth but what i wanted to bring up was someone in the audience i think it was henry
schreiner but i'm not a hundred percent sure pointed out that there's this thing called setup dash uv
i'd never heard of it mostly i don't do much with uh with um ci github ci that kind of things
personally it's just i don't know it just doesn't fit into my life it's not a requirement i got to do
a lot so i just don't play with github actions that much but this is a github action if you go to the
thing i'm the repo i'm linking to it says use this github action with your project click here but the idea
is it will set up a github action workflow for both installing a specific version of uv managing the
uv version and managing the caching of all the things it downloads isn't that cool oh that's very
cool yeah yeah exactly so it says it will install a version of uv and add it to your path thank you
that's handy cache the installed version of uv to speed up consecutive runs on self-hosted runners
that's kind of nice uh it'll potentially optionally persist the uv cache in the github actions cache
that's what i'm talking about where you can get it to say the second time your ci runs if it's still the
same requirements both this is good on pypi and i mean gentle and kind to pypi but it also means
that it's faster you don't have if there's some kind of source distribution that has to do an install or
something like that you know some of these dependencies are slow to install if they got to compile but once
they're cached they're super fast so this will make your prs and all of your ci just run faster so
i think that's great there's some other checks but you can come down and basically specify a
particular version you can pin it to a what is that a minor version like a 0.3 whatever latest
you can have checksums and you can even set up caching with your github actions so that's about all
i know about this but i know people who do a lot with github actions they'll probably be able to take
this and run with it um and i am i'm with uh rhett rhett turnbull says uh i haven't tried uv yet
primarily because i didn't want to mess with uploading github actions this will be very handy
i have been using uv but i have been i haven't added it to any of my github action of the projects
so um yeah i'm definitely going to check this out awesome hey rhett i'm glad to glad to hear you like it
um okay uh the last topic i've got is um i i'm i was thinking again on the uh people kind of
starting things new uh maybe possibly students is learning some html and um especially uh i was
this is nice it i wanted to highlight html for people.com and it's nice just sort of an online book and i
i just noticed that the the phone on the uh there's there's a great image on the front the phone on the
on the desk is at the time is 404 nice i think that's funny although they should have made it two
o'clock for 200 okay i mean you want to start out on a positive note yeah but that's really clever i like
it um but um it's a it's just a really well written a website and i and it's really clean looking but um i
i was looking through the introduction and really kind of reminded me how i learned html so i learned
html way like back back in the old days um in the 90s and uh we didn't have a lot there were some html
generators but i we just wanted to i wrote most of my html by hand just in a vi or something and probably
emacs at the time but anyway uh so this walks through actually building in a website like a
it walks through doing a website adding content um it does talk about maybe using a better text editor
if you're just using a just a basic text editor there are better ones um talking about style adding an about
page a blog a resume some great stuff for especially college students to to kind of do something uh nice
in raw html as a website um there's even uh some some bonus chapters on uh it had some simple css that
that was including but uh basically customizing the the css that was included in the the course and
then also covering some css basics because uh that that isn't new since i when i was back in the 90s
writing html no css there but now it's almost it's essential that you you learn at least a little bit
of css along with your html and maybe you're not going to write a pure html website but especially with
things like static generators or templates there's a lot of html we still write even if you're not writing
raw html web pages um so going through a tutorial that just talks about um the basics of html i think
it's a great way to get started yeah so i i love it and that's great it's got a little bit of a hat tip
to kenth wright although i don't know there's any connection but you know for human sort of thing
i noticed that if you go to the bottom you have uh github stuff for finding for getting the source code
and if you want need it offline and stuff like that yeah oh cool that's neat and it's uh it's got a
creative commons license oh interesting yeah non-commercial attribution non-commercial share
like 4.0 international license that's one of the longer creative commons license i've seen but very
nice yeah
cool cc by nc essay 4.0 i'll have to look at that one i don't exactly know what all that is
yeah yeah
uh anyway
i love it that's a good one extras extras extras i don't have any extras do you have any extras
uh just a couple real quick things so uh last time i think it was last time recently we spoke about
something we must replace micro whiz give us something else and i just wrote down some thoughts
and some links and some alternatives on my blog about that so people can check that out if they're
interested that's a brilliant idea some of the stuff that we talked about on this episode we could
or this podcast we could write blog posts about yeah sometimes i just want to shine a light on
something and we did that depend on the podcast but you know not the entire world doesn't necessarily
listen they should but they don't really you can find it i know it's so odd brian i did meet somebody
once who didn't listen to the show okay well i know you got something else but i wanted to say um if you
you could be a good friend to all of the rest of your friends if you share this podcast with them
so yes absolutely absolutely all right so people can check that out if they want to follow up on that
also want to give a shout out to carlton gibson he's one of the co-hosts for django chat but that's
not why i'm shouting him out i am because he created an extension for django django you knew a unique user email
so by default the django user model i believe requires you to have a username in addition to your email
and it's the username that's unique not the email that's unique which is kind of weird anyway
carlton fixed it so there i fixed it and he created this login by email with your default user model for django
by making uh off dot user dot email the database deal unique with a key constraint so anyway not a
whole lot to add to that but you know it's got steps on how to install it as a django app and make it go
but i think this kind of feels like it should have been there all the time so well done seems required but
certainly certainly certainly does you know what else is required what a joke yes let's do it now this
one is kind of a choose your own joke i i didn't pick ahead but what i found is a source of many jokes
that i can foresee coming at some point here brian okay i found the practical dev on github has created an
o'reilly full res covers for a whole bunch of o'reeillies you know what these are right yeah
they're like mock like fake o'reilly books exactly exactly so let's check out the ignoring deprecation
warnings one see what that one's like so maybe they'll just go away on their own it's a sleeping
cat that says ignore deprecation warnings nice what do you think that was pretty good right i like it
yeah plus i like it i do cats are nice here i'll see if i can find what about this one this one says
is that a camel i think does it run just leave it alone writing code that nobody else can read the
definitive guide oh really oh funny yeah okay and and the the the definitive pearl book had a camel on the
front right let's see i'll find i'll find oh how about the big regex by trial and error one if i click
this button doesn't give me the full view nope okay so this one is combining slashes and dots until a thing
happens expert regex by trial and error with a very curious giraffe peeking around the corner
adding slashes and dots yeah until something happens all right well that's what i got for you you all
could poke around in there maybe we'll come back some other time in the future and grab a few more good
ones buzzword like buzz buzzword first i mean that's bud buzzword first development fashion forward
buzzword development buzzword first design i love it that reminds me of uh um uh design by um or is it
resume driven design yeah that's it there you go that's right so nice um well good jokes and good talking
with you and yes as always talk to you later yeah see you later bye everyone